

I would like to formally apply for ESRI's Postdoctoral Research Fellowship. As a recent PhD graduate in Quantitative Sociology, I believe I have the necessary skills and experience for the proposed role. My experience in conducting survey research, pursuing publications, and evaluating public policy, as well as my knowledge of quantitative packages and languages, would allow me to quickly become an active contributer to ongoing and new projects.

Since finishing my PhD, I have been working as a researcher with Dublin City Council, evaluating housing policy goals using internal survey data, and the CSO's Census data (2011, 2016). During my five years at Maynooth University, I served as a Research Assistant and Administrator to an ERC-Funded research project (NEWDEALS).  In this position I analysed and cleaned data from the European Working Conditions Survey, the European Social Survey, and the European Labour Force Survey. As an example, I was instrumental in creating a macro-variable dataset for NEWDEALS, which contained a range of indicators- from Chinese imports to share of household debt. This involved the design, merging, and cleaning of macro-variables for 18 European countries.   

During this time I developed several skills that would complement the Fellowship. Throughout my MSc and PhD I carried out data analysis using longitudinal (the British Household Panel Survey and the German Socio-Economic Panel) and cross-sectional (EU-SILC, and ESS) datasets. I became a profficient user of SPSS, Stata, and R. I also learned several estimation techniques including Ordinary Least Squares regression, Logit and Probit regression, Fixed and Random Effects linear regression, and Event History analysis. In a general sense, my thesis taught me to craft research projects specific to the field, design data frames from individual surveys and other data files, analyse the results, and communicate these effectively.  As an example, I am seeking to publich work from the thesis. One paper is under review with the International Journal of Manpower, one is a working paper.

Similar to Prof Frances McGinnity and Prof Hellen Russell, I am interested in the impact of precarious and unstable work from a comparative perspective. Within the Sociology of Work and Employment, I'm interested in two subfields. First, the impact of labour market transitions on worker outcomes; how does movement between jobs and occupations affect outcomes like pay? Second, how do changes in social roles like parenthood and marriage affect outcomes like pay, and how are these gendered? Both of these topics are complementary to the research carried out by the ESRI.

Thank you for considering my application, I enclose a summary of my work history and skills to date. Please do not hesitate to contact me regarding the position, my details are enclosed.

Best,
Ivan Privalko, PhD
